---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: true
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: 'HAS THE SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE TO PROVIDE EARLY YEARS SETTINGS WITH ADVICE, GUIDANCE AND SUPPORT ON HOW TO MAKE YOUR SETTING ACHIEVE THE HIGHEST QUALITY OF EARLY YEARS PROVISION.'
datePublished: '2016-04-07T10:36:01.777Z'
dateModified: '2016-04-07T10:36:01.312Z'
title: How I can help
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-07-3f252b3b-446a-4cb9-94bb-7ed21c171085.md
published: true
url: 3f252b3b-446a-4cb9-94bb-7ed21c171085/index.html
_type: Article

---
HAS THE SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE TO PROVIDE EARLY YEARS SETTINGS WITH ADVICE, GUIDANCE AND SUPPORT ON HOW TO MAKE YOUR SETTING ACHIEVE THE HIGHEST QUALITY OF EARLY YEARS PROVISION.

In a nurturing environment children will thrive and grow by being guided into adopting positive attitudes to learning in readiness for their full time education****

The primary way to support this is through inspiring and motivating those who teach them. Latest research has shown that there is a strong link between quality and the level of staff qualifications and there is scope to use funding mechanisms channelled through providers to create stronger incentives for higher quality care.

Through my experiences and with a key focus, I can support staff by looking at their environment and give them guidance on the best way to achieve consistently high quality childcare and learning development****

A key principle of my practice is that Early Years settings are regarded as the first and most important step in the development of children's education.  

At my practice, we feel that these objectives are as much a responsibility to the Early Years practitioners as it is to Key Stage Teachers, so those working in Early Years need a good level of understanding of knowledge and theory. An outstanding practitioner needs to be able to demonstrate this knowledge and understanding by putting it into practice. 

In the past, Early Years settings have not been seriously regarded as an important factor in the development of our young people, however this is changing fast and more and more responsibilities are being placed on our Early Years practitioners in this respect.****

The Government are demanding a better qualified early years workforce but not all settings have the resources available to develop an infrastructure in areas that are vital to achieving a high quality provision whilst at the same time complying with government policies and standards.  My practice can provide that guidance, infrastructure, support and help. 

****